Exp1
Aim: To understand the benefits of Cloud Infrastructure and Setup AWS Cloud9 IDE, Launch AWS 
Cloud9 IDE and Perform Collaboration Demonstration. 

Steps: 
1. Login with your AWS account. 

2. Navigate to Cloud 9 service from Developer tools section.

3. Click on Create Environment.

4. Provide name for the Environment (WebAppIDE) and click on next.

5. Keep all the Default settings.

6. Review the Environment name and Settings and click on Create Environment.

7. Till that time open IAM Identity and Access Management in order to Add user In other tab.

8. Add user provide manual password if you want and click on Next permission tab.

9. Click on Create group

10. Provide group name (WebAppApsitGroup) and click on create group. 

11. After that group is created click on next if u want to provide tag else click on Review for user settings and click on create user.

12. Now close that window and Navigate to user Groups from left pane in IAM. 

13. Click on your group name which you have created and navigate to permission tab.

14. Now click on Add permission and select Attach Policy after that search for Cloud9 
related policy and select Awscloud9EnviornmentMember policy and add it. 

15. Now we move towards our cloud9 IDE Environment tab.

16. If you check at bottom side Cloud9 IDE also giving you and aws CLI for command 
operations: as we here checked git version, iam user details and so on...

17. Now we will setup collaborative environment Click on File you can create new file or 
choose from template, here m opting html file to collaborate.

18. Edit html file and save it.

19. Now in order to share this file to collaborate with other members of your team click on 
Share option on Right Pane and username which you created in IAM before into Invite 
members and enable permission as RW (Read and Write) and click on Done. Click OK for 
Security warning. 

20. Now Open your Browsers Incognito Window and login with IAM user which you 
configured before. 

21. After Successful login with IAM user open Cloud9 service from dashboard services and 
click on shared with you environment to collaborate.

22. Click on Open IDE you will same interface as your other member have to collaborate in 
real time, also you all within team can do group chats.

23. you can also explore settings where you can update permissions of your teammates 
as fromRW to R only or you can remove user too. 
